The overriding messages: (1) get away from static to dynamic, from backward-looking to forward-looking -- is a strong principle; (2) do not get afraid to pay for growth!

————

I have long argued that the valuation of a company is not a science. In a science, if we get the inputs right, we should get the output right. The laws of physics and chemistry are universal and there are no exceptions. But in an art, there are elements that can be taught but there is also a magic that we either have or we do not. The essence of an art is that we are either a great artist or we are not. Valuation is not an art. A craft is a skill that people learn by doing. The more we do it, the better we get at it. Valuation is a craft and it always starts with a story. 

A critical part of the process of converting story to value is checking for possibility, plausibility and probability. The secret to great investing is the happy marriage of numbers with plausible investment stories. In this process, we have to recognize that even the best-sounding stories may have to be abandoned if they are not backed up by numbers. As Buffett once said: “It's far better to buy a wonderful company at a fair price than a fair company at a wonderful price.” 

In this workshop we will learn how to explore financial data to filter our story through the 3P test: Is it possible? Is it plausible? Is it probable? There are lots of possible stories, a smaller subset of plausible stories, and an even smaller set of probable stories. The trickiest part of the valuation process is striking a balance amongst growth, profitability, and reinvestment, while arriving at a plausible story that holds these strings together, to derive value. 


Cases:

1 - Apple’s Earnings Call on April 23, 2014. What exactly did we learn about Apple in the report that we did not know already? Is the price rise merited? After the post-report price jump, is Apple fully priced? Apple tried to narrow the pricing gap by utilizing non-value measures, such as increase in dividends, larger stock buyback program, and stock split.

2 - Valuing a CEO requires an understanding of how that CEO plans to change the company and quantification of the effects. When Satya Nadella took over, Microsoft had been going nowhere for a decade. Literally. Yet, in the 6 years of his tenure, Microsoft's market cap has gone up from $315 billion to $1.6 trillion. That’s 5x increase in market cap in just 6 years. Nadella has completely turned around Microsoft's culture. And he's made Microsoft really exciting again.

3 - Facebook has had perhaps the most productive opening act in history of any publicly listed company, if you define production in operating results. At the time of its IPO it promised the moon, and has delivered the sun. What makes Facebook's rise even more impressive is that it has been able to deliver these results in a market, where it faces an equally voracious competitor in Google. Whatever the public perception of Facebook as a company is, it seems that Facebook itself is doing better than ever, no matter how we crunch the numbers.


Models:
http://www.rnfc.org/courses/finance/modules/value-investing-modeling/

Book: 
DAMODARAN, ASWATH. Narrative and Numbers: The Value of Stories in Business. Columbia University Press, 2017.

Schedule: 
TBD